MASTER AGREEMENT
----------------

 

 

This Master Agreement (the "Agreement") is between GENERIC SOFTWARE SYSTEMS Inc.,
a Delaware corporation having a place of business at the address listed on the
front page ("SoftCo") and the entity identified on the signature page of these
General Terms and Conditions. ("Customer"). The Agreement governs all
transactions between SoftCo and Customer.   The following, when signed by
Customer and SoftCo and attached to this Agreement, become a part of  this
Agreement:

 

               

The General Terms and Conditions below apply to all transactions.  Terms and
conditions which apply only to a certain type of transaction are contained in the
applicable section.  .

 

I.  GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

 

1.  TERM OF AGREEMENT.  This Agreement will begin on the Effective Date set forth
below and will continue unless terminated as described in Section 3.

 

2.  PAYMENT.   Customer shall pay all amounts due under this Agreement in U.S.
dollars to SoftCo at the address above within 30 days from the date of invoice. 
SoftCo may charge interest on overdue amounts at the rate of 1.5% per month or
the highest lawful rate, whichever is less. Customer shall be responsible for all
taxes incurred with respect to the delivery of SoftCo's products and services,
except those taxes based on SoftCos income or payroll.

 

3.  TERMINATION.

 

                3.1  Termination for Breach.  If any material breach of this
Agreement by either party continues after thirty days' written notice of the
breach to the other party, the party giving notice may terminate this Agreement
immediately.

 

                3.2  Termination for Bankruptcy.  SoftCo may terminate this
Agreement if Customer files a petition for bankruptcy or has an involuntary
petition filed on its behalf, and the petition is not terminated or dismissed
within 60 days.  SoftCo may also terminate this Agreement upon Customer's
dissolution, liquidation, composition, financial reorganization or
recapitalization with creditors, assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the
appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, or similar agent for Customer's
business or property.  Customer agrees that all of its rights under this
Agreement are personal and shall not be assignable or otherwise transferable in
any bankruptcy proceedings involving Customer.

 

                3.3   Termination without Cause.  Either party may terminate this
Agreement without cause by providing 60 days' written notice to the other party.

               

                3.4  Obligations on Termination.  Upon termination of this
Agreement:

 

                (a)  Each party shall continue to be responsible for safeguarding
the other's proprietary and/or confidential information in accordance with the
terms of this Agreement.  Subject to the provisions of subsection (d), each party
shall erase, destroy or return to the other any of the other party's proprietary
and/or confidential information in its possession. If requested, the other party
shall verify in writing to the requesting party within thirty days that the
requesting party's proprietary and/or confidential information has been returned,
destroyed, or erased.

 

                (b)  If Customer has licensed the SOFTCO Software as described in
Addendum A, it shall immediately discontinue use and distribution (if applicable)
of the SoftCo Software in its possession (including any copies placed in any
storage device under Customer's control) and return or destroy any such copies
subject to the provisions of subsection (d).

 

                (c)  If Customer has obtained the right to distribute Customer
Application Seat Software as described in Addendum D, its End Users shall be
permitted the continued and uninterrupted use of the copies of the Developer
Application Seat Software for the balance of the term of their sublicense
agreements, so long as the End Users are not in default of those sublicense
agreements.

 

                (d)  Customer and each Subdistributor (if applicable) shall have
the right to retain one copy of the SoftCo Software for which Customer has a
sublicense agreement currently outstanding and may use such SoftCo Software to
the extent required for support and maintenance under sublicense agreements. 
However, Customer and Subdistributors shall have no other right to sublicense or
otherwise distribute products incorporating the SoftCo Software or any other
rights with respect to it.

 

                3.5  Survival.  The provisions of this Agreement related to
payment and the other provisions of this Agreement which by their nature are so
intended,  shall survive any termination of this Agreement.

 

4.  LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.  IN NO EVENT WILL SOFTCO BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, OR OTHER INDIRECT DAMAGES OR FOR ANY DAMAGES
RESULTING FROM INACCURATE OR LOST DATA OR LOSS OF USE OR LOST PROFITS ARISING OUT
OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTCO
SOFTWARE, OR ANY SERVICES PERFORMED BY SOFTCO, WHETHER IN AN ACTION IN CONTRACT,
TORT, OR IN ANY OTHER CAUSE OF ACTION.  IN NO EVENT WILL SOFTCO'S  TOTAL
LIABILITY FOR ANY DAMAGES IN ANY ACTION BASED ON OR ARISING OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT EXCEED THE TOTAL AMOUNT PAID TO SOFTCO BY CUSTOMER
DURING THE PRECEDING 12-MONTH PERIOD FOR THE PRODUCT OR SERVICE FORMING THE BASIS
FOR THE ACTION.

 

5.  WARRANTIES AND LIMITATIONS.

 

                5.1  Warranties.  SoftCo warrants to Customer that the SoftCo
Software, as delivered by SoftCo to Customer and properly installed and operated
on the computer system on which the SoftCo Software was intended to operate, will
perform substantially as described in its then-current documentation for ninety
(90) days from the date of the delivery.  During such 90-day period, if the
SoftCo Software fails to so perform, Customer shall promptly notify SoftCo of,
and adequately describe, the failure, and Customer's exclusive remedy and
SoftCo's sole obligation shall be to take the following actions:

 

                (a)                ; SoftCo will (i) provide telephone or e-mail
assistance to the Customer in problem resolution during the period Monday -
Friday, 9:00 a.m. - 5:30 p.m., United States Eastern Time Zone time and will make
reasonable efforts to provide work arounds and/or corrections for the reported
problems in the affected copy of SoftCo Software; or (ii) if such problem
resolution is not successful, terminate the license and refund the license fee
paid for the applicable copy of SoftCo Software; and

 

                (b)                ; SoftCo will supply Internal Improvements to
Customer as they become generally available.  Only one set of internal
improvements will be provided per site. 

 

                5.2                ; Limitations.  Because the SoftCo Software is
complex, SoftCo does not warrant that the SoftCo Software is error-free or that
its use will be uninterrupted.  SoftCo shall not be obligated to remedy any
SoftCo Software defect which cannot be adequately repeated.  The warranties set
forth in Section 5.1 do not apply to any SoftCo Software which has been (i)
altered, except by SoftCo or in accordance with its instructions, (ii) used in
conjunction with another vendor's product resulting in the defect, (iii) the use
of other than the most current version of the SoftCo Software (to the extent that
any failure of the SoftCo Software would have been avoided by the use of such
most current version) or (iv) damaged by improper environment, abuse, misuse,
accident or negligence.  The warranties set forth in Section 5.1 do not apply to,
and SoftCo specifically disclaims all warranties concerning, SoftCo Software
identified in SoftCo's price list or elsewhere as alpha or beta test versions, or
as unsupported or discontinued versions; such SoftCo Software is furnished on as
"as-is" basis only.

 

                THE FOREGOING WARRANTIES ARE EXCLUSIVE REMEDIES AND ARE IN LIEU
OF ALL OTHER REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, STATUTORY OR
OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  No statement, including without limitation,
representations regarding capacity, suitability for use or performance of
Licensor Software, whether made by Licensor's employees or otherwise, shall be
deemed to be a warranty by Licensor for any purpose or to give rise to any
liability of Licensor unless contained in this Agreement.

 

                SoftCo's warranty in Section 5.1 is for the benefit of Customer
only.  Customer may not grant, assign or otherwise transfer SoftCo's warranty to
any other person or entity.  SOFTCO MAKES NO OTHER WARRANTY OF ANY KIND TO
CUSTOMER OR TO ANY OTHER PARTY.

 

6 . CLAIMS OF INFRINGEMENT.

 

                6.1                ; Indemnification.  SoftCo will defend or
settle at its option and expense any action brought against Customer to the
extent that it is based on a claim that either the SoftCo Software or any other
deliverable provided under this Agreement ("Deliverable") infringes any United
States patent or copyright, and SoftCo will pay all damages, costs and expenses
(including reasonable attorneys' fees) awarded  against Customer, provided that
Customer (i) notifies SoftCo promptly in writing of the action, (ii) provides
SoftCo with reasonable information and assistance for the defense or settlement
of the action, and (iii) grants SoftCo sole authority and control of the defense
or settlement of the action.   Customer shall have no authority to settle any
action on behalf of SoftCo, and no costs or expenses shall be incurred for the
account of SoftCo without its  prior written consent.

 

                6.2                ; Limitation of Indemnification.  SoftCo shall
have no liability to Customer to the extent the infringement or claim thereof is
the result of (i) use of the SoftCo Software or Deliverable in combination with
other products, devices or software which are not furnished to Customer by
SoftCo, if the infringement would not have occurred but for the combination; 
(ii) modification of the SoftCo Software or  Deliverable by other than SoftCo, or
(iii) use of other than a current unaltered version of the SoftCo Software or
Deliverable , if such infringement would have been avoided by use of the current
unaltered version of the SoftCo Software or Deliverable. In the case of Services,
this indemnification shall not apply to Deliverables based on specifications
created by Customer or to Deliverables that, in the absence of software or
equipment provided by Customer, would not infringe the intellectual property
rights of the affected party.

 

                6.3                ; Remedies for Infringement.  Should the
SoftCo Software or Deliverable become, or in the opinion of SoftCo be likely to
become, the subject of a claim of such an infringement, then SoftCo shall, at its
option and expense either (i) procure for Customer the right to use the SoftCo
Software or Deliverable, or (ii) replace or modify the SoftCo Software or
Deliverable to make it non-infringing, or (iii) if the options described in
clauses (i) and (ii) are not commercially practical, accept the return of the
SOFTCO Software or Deliverable (or the infringing part thereof),  terminate the
licenses granted hereunder, and grant to Customer a refund either for the SoftCo
Software or, in the case of Services, for the time charged to the Customer for
the infringing Deliverable.

 

6.4  Entire Liability.  THIS SECTION STATES THE ENTIRE LIABILITY OF SOFTCO WITH
RESPECT TO PATENT OR COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT CLAIMS CONCERNING THE PROVISION OF
SERVICES OR CONCERNING THE SOFTCO SOFTWARE OR ITS USE OR OPERATION.

 

7.  CONFIDENTIALITY.         

 

                The parties agree not to permit access to or to disclose the
other partys Confidential Information except to its authorized employees and
contractors who are bound by confidentiality agreements and who need to use or
have access to the other partys Confidential Information as permitted by this
Agreement.  A party shall use at least the same degree of care in protecting the
other partys Confidential Information as such party generally exercises in
protecting its own most valuable proprietary information and shall inform its
employees having access to the Confidential Information of its confidential
nature. Confidential Informationincludes documents, data, software and
information which, when provided by one party to the other, are clearly
identified as Confidentialor Proprietary, or marked with a similar legend. 
Information disclosed orally or visually that is to be considered Confidential
Information will be so noted at the time of disclosure and confirmed in writing
within 10 days.  However, the receiving party shall have no obligation of
confidentiality with respect to any Confidential information which: (a) is
already known to the receiving party at the time of disclosure;  (b) is or
subsequently becomes publicly available through no wrongful act of the receiving
party;  (c) is disclosed to or provided to the receiving party by a third party
without restriction;  or (d) is developed independently by the receiving party
without use of or access to the disclosing partys Confidential Information.

 

8.  GENERAL.

 

                (a)                ;   Governing Law.  This Agreement shall be
governed in all respects by the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts without
giving effect to principles of conflict of laws.  The United Nations Convention
for the International Sale of Goods shall not apply to this Agreement.

 

                (b)                ;   Notices.  All notices or reports shall be
in writing and shall be delivered by personal delivery, facsimile transmission,
or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, and shall be deemed
given upon personal delivery, five days after deposit in the mail, or upon
acknowledgment of receipt of electronic transmission.  Notices shall be sent to
the addresses set forth on the first page of this Agreement or to such other
address as either party may specify in writing.

 

                (c)                ;   No Agency.  Nothing contained in this
Agreement shall be construed as creating any agency, partnership, or other form
of joint enterprise between the parties.

 

                (d)                ;   Injunctive Relief.  Customer acknowledges
that its breach of this Agreement may cause SoftCo irreparable damage for which
recovery of money damages would be inadequate.  Therefore, it agrees that SoftCo
shall be entitled to seek injunctive relief to protect its rights under this
Agreement in addition to any other remedies.

 

                (e)                ;   Force Majeure.  Neither party shall be
liable to the other for any failure or delay in the performance of its
obligations (except for the payment of money) for any cause which is beyond the
reasonable control of such party.

 

                (f)                ;   Waiver.  If one party fails to enforce a
provision of this Agreement, it shall not be precluded from enforcing the same
provision at another time.

 

                (g)                ;   Severability.  If any provision of this
Agreement is deemed unenforceable or invalid by law or by a court decision,  the
provision shall be changed and interpreted if possible to accomplish the intent
of the provision within the constraints of the law.  Only that provision, and not
the entire agreement, shall be invalidated.

 

                (h)                ;   Assignment.  Customer may not assign this
Agreement, in whole or in part,  or any rights or obligations created by it,
without the prior written consent of SoftCo, which consent shall not be
unreasonably withheld.  Any such attempted assignment shall be void.

 

                (i)                ; No Conflicting Terms. SoftCo shall not
accept, and this Agreement does not operate as an acceptance of, any different or
additional terms and conditions, and this Agreement shall prevail over any such
different or additional provisions, of any order of Customer or any other
instruments.

 

                (j)                ;   Entire Agreement.  This Agreement
supersedes all previous agreements, whether oral or written, with respect to its
subject matter.  This Agreement may only be changed in a writing signed by
authorized representatives of each party.

 

.SOFTWARE LICENSE

 

1.                LICENSE GRANT.

 

"SoftCo Software" means the computer software code in object code form provided
by SoftCo, including all associated updates, upgrades, and documentation. With
respect to any copies of the SoftCo Software ordered by Customer for its internal
use, SoftCo hereby grants to Customer a non-exclusive, non-transferable, personal
license during the term of this Agreement, subject to Customer's compliance with
the terms and conditions of this Agreement, to use such copies of  SoftCo
Software internally solely at the location set forth on the signature page of the
Master Agreement (or such other location as Customer may designate in writing). 
The SoftCo Software  may be used by Customer at any one time by no more than the
number of simultaneous users for which license fees have been paid to SoftCo

 

2.   LICENSE FEES.   For each copy of SoftCo Software licensed by Customer for
internal use pursuant to Section 1 above, Customer shall pay SoftCo the
applicable license fee.

 

3.    LIMITATIONS ON USE.  This Agreement does not grant to Customer any right to
copy SoftCo Software. Customer may not reverse engineer, reverse compile, or
otherwise attempt to recreate the source code version of the SoftCo Software. The
SoftCo Software constitutes "restricted rights" software for purposes of
government contracting and subcontracting.

 

4.   DELIVERY.  SoftCo will use its best efforts to ship within thirty (30) days
of its acceptance of Customer's order.  Customer shall pay all costs of
shipping.   Delivery will be FOB SoftCo's plant or manufacturing source, at
SoftCo's option.  In the absence of prior shipping instructions, SoftCo will
select the carrier on behalf of Customer, but shall not assume any liability for
shipment or choice of carrier, nor shall the carrier be construed to be an agent
of SoftCo.

 

CUSTOMER APPLICATION SEAT DISTRIBUTION

 

1.  DEFINITIONS

 

"End User" means a user of Customer Application Seat Software.

 

"Customer Application Seat Software" means a software product developed,
marketed, and supported by Customer consisting of an integrated combination of
(i) certain components of the SoftCo Software and (ii) software developed and
supported by Customer.  For a product to qualify as Customer Application Seat
Software, Customer must have added substantial value to the SoftCo Software when
creating the Customer Application Seat Software, such that the portion of the
value of the Customer Application Seat Software consisting of SoftCo Software is
less than 50% of the total value of the  Customer Application Seat Software. 
Furthermore, the End User must believe that it is acquiring a turnkey value-added
application product that is substantially different from SoftCo Software standing
alone.  Customer Application Seat Software must be a product targeted for a
vertical  market and cannot be sold or marketed as a general purpose
visualization or development product.  Customer Application Seat Software
includes documentation relating to the Customer Application Seat Software.

 

Subdistributor.  "Subdistributor" means a third party distributor of Customer's
products which has entered into a Sublicense Agreement with Customer. 

 

Sublicense Agreement.  "Sublicense Agreement" means a sublicense agreement from
Customer to a Subdistributor or to a Customer Application Seat  End-User, or from
a Subdistributor to a Customer Application Seat End-User, which is consistent
with this Agreement and which contains provisions that are at least as protective
of SOFTCOand the SoftCo Software as those contained in this Agreement.

 

2.   LICENSE TO SUBLICENSE CUSTOMER APPLICATION SEAT SOFTWARE.  SOFTCOgrants to
Customer a non-exclusive, non-transferable, personal license during the term of
this Agreement and subject to Customer's compliance with the terms and conditions
of this Agreement, to sublicense Customer Application Seat Software to End Users
as follows: 

 

                (a)                ; Each sublicense to a End User shall be for a
single copy of Customer Application Seat Software in object code form for use (i)
in the case of a Locked License, by a single user on a single End User Designated
System, and (ii) in the case of a Floating License, for use at any one time by no
more than the number of simultaneous users for which license fees have been paid
by Customer to SOFTCO for such copy.

 

                (b)                ; Customer may distribute Customer Application
Seat Software to End Users through Subdistributors who are part of Customer's
normal distribution channels.

 

                (c)                ; Customer shall not distribute SoftCo
Software, directly or indirectly, except as integrated into Customer Application
Seat Software in object code form pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. 
Customer shall not knowingly distribute Customer Application Seat Software to End
Users who intend to use the SoftCo Software contained in the Customer Application
Seat Software to run applications other than the applications provided in the
Customer Application Seat Software.

 

(d)                ; Customer will protect SoftCo's proprietary rights in the
SoftCo Software and will cause each Subdistributor and third party End User to
sign a Sublicense Agreement prior to receipt of a copy of the Customer
Application Seat Software or will distribute the Customer Application Seat
Software with an enforceable shrink-wrap, click-wrap, or similar license.

 

                (e)                ; Except for the purpose of creating copies of
the Customer Application Seat Software to Sublicense to End Users, this Agreement
does not grant to Customer any right to copy SoftCo Software.  SOFTCO shall ship
to Customer the copies of the SoftCo Software to be used for internal use.

 

                (f)                ; If SOFTCOuses, in conjunction with its
distribution of the SoftCo Software, software serialization, copy protection, or
any other mechanism to restrict or monitor unauthorized use of the SoftCo
Software, Customer shall also use such mechanism(s) in conjunction with the
Customer Application Seat Software which it distributes.  Customer agrees not to
disable or impair, and to use best efforts to cause End Users not to disable or
impair, the features of the SoftCo Software that restrict its use to a particular
computer system and/or number of users; provided, however, that SOFTCOand
Customer may agree that Customer may use its own "licensing manager" mechanism
that is substantially equivalent to that used by AVS, in which case SOFTCOand
Customer shall describe such mechanism on, and initial, the space above the
signature lines of this Addendum.

 

3. REPORTING; PAYMENT. 

 

3.1  Within thirty (30) days after the end of each calendar month, Customer shall
deliver to SOFTCOa written statement certified by an authorized representative of
Customer showing for such month  (i) the sublicenses entered into by Customer and
any Subdistributor broken down by type, and (ii) the model, serial number (or
Host I.D. or other unique system identifier) of the End User Designated System
and/or the number of authorized users covered by each such sublicense.   Customer
shall include the required payment with its report.

 

3.2   Right of Audit.  To ensure compliance with the terms of this Agreement,
SoftCo shall have the right, not more than once per year and upon 30 days'
notice, to have an inspection and audit of all the relevant of Customer conducted
by an independent certified public accountant reasonably acceptable to both
parties whose fee is paid by SoftCo, which shall be conducted during regular
business hours at Customer's offices and in such a manner as not to interfere
with Customer's normal business activities.  Customer will promptly pay SoftCo
any amounts determined to have been underpaid.

 

4.  COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER NOTICES.  In order to protect SOFTCOS copyright and
other ownership interests, Customer agrees that each copy of the Customer
Application Seat Software which Customer distributes hereunder shall contain the
same copyright notices which appear on or in the SoftCo Software delivered by
SOFTCOto Customer.  The SoftCo Software constitutes "restricted rights" software
for purposes of government contracting and subcontracting.  Customer shall ensure
that the rights granted to the U.S. Government or any U.S. Government
subcontractor shall be only those minimum "restricted rights" described in FAR
52.227-19 or DFARS 252.227-7013(c)(1) or successor regulations.  Customer shall
include all appropriate restricted rights legends on any Customer Product.

 

5.  LIMITATION OF WARRANTY. SOFTCOMAKES NO WARRANTY WITH RESPECT TO THE CUSTOMER
APPLICATION SEAT SOFTWARE, WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE,
INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

 

6.  ENFORCEMENT OF SUBLICENSES.  Customer shall use its best efforts to cause
each Subdistributor and End User to comply with the terms of its applicable
Sublicense Agreement, which efforts may include, among other things, the
termination of any such Sublicense Agreement.

 

[Initial if Applicable:]

Customer and SOFTCO have agreed that instead of the licensing manager used by
Softco, Customer shall use the following licensing mechanism when distributing
Customer Application Seat Software (Describe):
________________________________.    SoftCo: _____   Customer: _____

 

GENERIC SOFTWARE SYSTEMS INC.

. CUSTOMER

 

By: ___________________________            ;               &
nbsp;              &nb sp;    By:____________________________

 

Printed Name: __________________            &n bsp;              &nbs p;       
Printed Name: ___________________

 

Title: __________________________                                  Title:
__________________________

 

Date: __________________________

 